---
layout: post
title: "Running the Pemi Loop"
date: 2025-10-06
---

The Pemigewasset Loop is another popular hike/backpack/trail run in New Hampshire's White Mountains, and was my other running goal for the 2025 season. Having successfully [hiked]({% post_url 2025-09-27-presi-hike %}) and [run]({% post_url 2025-09-28-presi-picnic %}) a Presidential Traverse the previous weekend, and with good weather in the forecast, I took the day off work and once more drove North, sleeping at a rest stop on Sunday night for an early start on Monday Morning.

### That sign can't stop me 'cause I can't read

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_111942176.jpg"
   alt="Me with a bad haircut grinning in front of the Lincoln Woods Ranger Station"
   caption="Grinning like the idiot I am"
    %}

I arrived at the Lincoln Woods Trailhead for a nice 7:20 am start. Having backpacked the loop in three days a few years ago, I didn't bother looking at a map and set off down the trail. I knew the first few miles were on a flat wide rail trail, so continued to cruise until I was startled awake by a sign that said "East Side Trail". With the words "Lincoln Woods Trail" floating somewhere in the back of my memories, I checked the map... and turned around and ran back to the start. Let's call it a warm-up.

<div class="strava-embed-placeholder" data-embed-type="activity" data-embed-id="16056703183" data-style="standard" data-from-embed="false"></div><script src="https://strava-embeds.com/embed.js"></script>

### Okay for real this time

Scrutinizing the map, I set off from the parking lot once more, this time crossing the bridge, and being immediately rewarded for my route finding with a lovely view of the Pemigewasset River flanked by fall leaves

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_113818201.jpg"
   alt="A low river with rocks strewn about, colorful leaves on the trees on either side"
   caption="That's more like it"
   large=true
    %}

I cruised down the correct rail trail for about the first two miles, then made a left into the woods. The trail quickly began climbing, culminating in stairs and ladders over the steepest bits.

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_124432352.jpg"
   alt="Steep wooden stairs leading up a forested trail"
   caption="Because why make switchbacks when you can haul lumber up?"
    %}

After about three miles of climbing, I arrived at the first of the day's 8 (ish? depending on what you're counting) summits - Mt. Flume.

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_130633037.PANO.jpg"
   alt="A panoramic view of colorful trees below, with a ridgeline off to the right"
   large=true
    %}

The small ziplock holding my electrolyte pills sprung a leak as I proceeded down from the summit, leading to a brief scavenger hunt along the ridge and some reorganization to free up a zipper pocket on my vest, but I reached Mt. Liberty otherwise undisturbed, enjoying the occasional bit of ridgeline running as I emerged out of the trees. 

Having brought only 1.5L of water, I decided to take the detour to Liberty Springs after summitting Liberty - the spring was flowing, and I chatted with another runner as I refilled (and thus forgot to take any pictures). After climbing back out of the notch, I started on arguably the most scenic part of the day - the ridge from Lincoln to Lafayette.


{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_142731723.jpg"
   alt="A rocky sub-summit with several people visible in the distance"
   caption="The first view of Little Haystack - surprisingly busy for a Monday morning"
   large=true
    %}

Although somewhat crowded, I enjoyed the beautiful views, clear weather, and rolling terrain of the ridge.

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_142949036.MP.jpg"
   alt="A summit in the distance, with the ridgeline trail to it in the foreground"
   caption="Mt. Lincoln from just after Little Haystack"
   large=true
    %}

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_144321117.PANO.jpg"
   alt="A panoramic view of several summits"
   caption="A panoramic view from Mt. Lincoln. Lafayette in the center. Owl's Head on the right in the foreground. The background summit ridge on the right is Garfield, and then the second half of the loop (Twins, Bonds) continuing right from there"
   large=true
    %}

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_150105560.jpg"
   alt="Another summit view"
   caption="Looking at the second half of the loop from Mt. Lafayette"
   large=true
    %}

The coolest thing about the Pemi Loop in my opinion is that you can see the entire route from pretty much every summit. I had a blast proceeding along, looking at the mountains I had just climbed and slowly watching the remaining distance whittle away. 

After descending from Lafayette however, the trail becomes a bit of a slog through the woods, with no further views until Garfield.I trudged onwards, downwards, forwards, upwards, and appeared out of the trees once more. A very kind couple at the top of Mt. Garfield offered me a bite of sourdough and some apple slices, both locally sourced, which more than made up for the previous drudgery

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_161549233.PANO.jpg"
   alt="Yet another summit panorama, with the remnants of a shelter on the summit"
   caption="The only picture I took on Garfield because I was too busy enjoying delicious snacks! On the right is the ridge over to Galehead and then the climb up to South Twin"
   large=true
    %}

The descent off of Garfield brought the second water source of the day, and I filtered uphill of the sign as instructed - which made sense since the stream and the trail became one and the same soon after.

{% include photo.html
   src="/assets/images/20205-10-06-pemi-loop/PXL_20251006_163613797.MP.jpg"
   alt="A sign on a tree that says 'Water' with an arrow pointing left"
   caption="Spoiler alert: There is water on the right as well"
   large=true
    %}






